Dear James,

Thank you for your submission to LICS2021. The LICS2021 rebuttal
period will be between 10 March and 14 March. Please note that all LICS
deadlines are AoE.

During this time, you will have access to the current state of your
reviews and have the opportunity to submit a response of up to 600
words. Please keep in mind the following during this process:

* The response must focus on any factual errors in the reviews and
any questions posed by the reviewers. It must not provide new
research results or reformulate the presentation. Try to be as
concise and to the point as possible.

* The rebuttal period is an opportunity to react to the reviews, but
not a requirement to do so. Thus, if you feel the reviews are
accurate and the reviewers have not asked any questions, then you do
not have to respond.

* The reviews are as submitted by the PC members, without any
coordination between them. Thus, there may be inconsistencies.
Furthermore, these are not the final versions of the reviews. The
reviews can later be updated to take into account the discussions at
the program committee meeting, and we may find it necessary to
solicit other outside reviews after the rebuttal period.

* The program committee will read your responses carefully and take
this information into account during the discussions. On the other
hand, the program committee will not directly respond to your
responses, either before the program committee meeting or in the
final versions of the reviews.

* Your response will be seen by all PC members who have access to the
discussion of your paper, so please try to be polite and constructive.

* We have received almost all reviews before the rebuttal, 98.5% of them,
to be precise. Still, a very small number of papers have a review missing.
If yours is one of those, and the missing review arrives during the rebuttal
period, I will notify you.

The reviews on your paper are attached to this letter. To submit your
response you should log on the EasyChair Web page for LICS2021 and
select your submission on the menu.

----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 178
TITLE: Sequential Composition for Relaxed Memory: Pomsets with Predicate Transformers
AUTHORS: Alan Jeffrey and James Riely

----------- Overall evaluation -----------

To this reviewer, the pomsets-with-preconditions model is very appealing, and
the idea to use it with predicate transformers is attractive.

Unfortunately, I believe the main headline claim, that "This paper presents
the first semantics for relaxed memory with a compositional definition of
sequential composition", is false. For the paper

Ryan Kavanagh, Stephen Brookes:
A denotational account of C11-style memory. CoRR abs/1804.04214 (2018)

has a compositonal semantics of sequential composition. Furthermore, I don't
believe giving a compositional semantics of sequential composition in the
presence of relaxed memory is in and of itself a difficult problem. For
instance,

Jonathan Hayman, Glynn Winskel: Independence and Concurrent Separation
Logic. Log. Methods Comput. Sci. 4(1) (2008)

do so for an independence model which is related to, but not identical to,
pomsets. While they don't specialize their ideas to a weak memory model, it
seems like there would be a pretty easy path. There are doubtless other
papers in this vicinity too (sequential composition for true concurrency
models).

But independently of how easy it is, I believe that the Kavanagh-Brookes
paper already achieves what this paper claims is it's main contribution.

As a result, I don't see a way to accept this paper. The contents seem
interesting to me, but the pitch is problematic. And, as a reviewer, I don't
think it is correct for me to attempt to rewrite the paper, to discover a
different way to say why it is interesting or a contribution. In saying this
I want to emphasize to the authors that my low grade does not mean I think
this is low quality work or a bad direction -- quite the contrary. Rather,
there is (as far as I can tell) a simple slip-up in explaining what the work
achieves, and I hope the authors will, perhaps with additional technical
work, arrive at a convincing explanation for what looks like an interesting
model that is worth exploring.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 178
TITLE: Sequential Composition for Relaxed Memory: Pomsets with Predicate Transformers
AUTHORS: Alan Jeffrey and James Riely

----------- Overall evaluation -----------
Summary:
========

This paper presents a new relaxed memory model. This model is based on the
model proposed in [10] where each execution of the program is represented as
a partial order over read and write events. The order between these events
corresponds to their dependency relation. The events are then extended with
preconditions (i.e., formula over local registers, memory references, ...)
that are used to encode control and data dependencies between the events.

The model presented in [10] suffers from the limitation that it does not
allow the modeling of general sequencing. To remedy this, the authors propose
to extend the model of [10] in order to support sequential composition. To
that aim, the authors define a family of predicate transformers (which allow
the mapping of each postcondition to a precondition). This family of
predicate transformers is indexed by a subset of events. The authors then use
this family of predicate transformers to define compositional semantics for
sequential composition. This model is also extended in order to deal with
release-acquire access and SC access.  Finally, the authors present an
efficient compilation of the proposed relaxed model to ARMv8.

Evaluation:
=========

This paper addresses an interesting problem which is to define a relaxed
memory model that captures most of the common program transformations and
enjoys an efficient compilation to ARMv8. This is a difficult and challenging
problem. This paper presents the first logical relaxed memory model with
compositional semantics for sequential composition. The paper is well-written
and easy to follow.

On the negative side, it lacks an appropriate work section on the paper. For
the related work section, the authors refer the reader to [10]. This makes
the paper not-self contained. Therefore, I encourage the authors to add a
related work section with a detailed comparison to [10] and a description of
the challenges and difficulties encountered.

It is also important that the authors try to prove that the new proposed
relaxed model satisfies the DRF guarantee (which is a very important
property).

Finally, it is not clear whether the proposed relaxed model can be extended
to handle loops and recursive functions. This paper can be seen as a step
towards that goal.

Other comments:
==============

- It's great to use this large number of examples to illustrate the new
  casual model. However, it is important to add an explanation/description of
  these examples in order to help the reader.

- Page 4: "Each register appears at most once" --> "Each register is assigned
  at most once"

----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
SUBMISSION: 178
TITLE: Sequential Composition for Relaxed Memory: Pomsets with Predicate Transformers
AUTHORS: Alan Jeffrey and James Riely

----------- Overall evaluation -----------

The paper is concerned with the semantics for programs in terms of memory
models, where instructions are interpreted as a collection of read/write
operations satisfying some consistency criteria. In this case, the memory
models considered are relaxed memory models, where consistency is required
only locally (when read/write affect the same location). The paper builds on
a related work [10] in using pomsets, extended with predicate transformers
and weakest precondition semantics, to interpret sequential composition.

The paper is well motivated and certainly relevant to LICS. However, it is
not so clear what (formal) properties this new semantics are supposed to
have. Some litmus tests are given in Section 5 to illustrate the adequacy of
the semantics, but there are no formal proofs that establish desired
properties (as captured by those litmus tests, for example). The formal parts
of the paper seem to consist of a series of definitions. The author(s) claim
these have been formalised in Agda, but it's not clear whether the
formalisation includes (interesting) properties of the semantics.

------------------------------------------------------
